# **Lower Missouri River Flood Risk and Resiliency System Plan**

APPENDIX A.4– Resiliency

December 2025

# Table of Contents

| 1.0 Introduction                                                                     | 5  |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| 2.0 Resiliency Measures                                                              | 11 |
| 2.1 Planned Overtopping                                                              | 11 |
| 2.2 Overtopping Erosion Protection                                                   | 11 |
| 2.3 Raise/Armor Tie Backs:                                                           | 11 |
| 2.4 Seepage Improvements                                                             | 11 |
| 2.5 Improved/Reconstructed Revetment                                                 | 11 |
| 2.6 Pipe Reconstruction                                                              | 12 |
| 2.7 Structure Reconstruction                                                         | 12 |
| 3.0 Resiliency Measures Screening                                                    | 13 |
| 3.1 Planned Overtopping                                                              | 13 |
| 3.2 Overtopping Erosion Protection                                                   | 18 |
| 3.3 Raise/Armor Tiebacks                                                             | 18 |
| 3.4 Seepage Improvements                                                             | 19 |
| 3.5 Improved/Reconstructed Revetment                                                 | 19 |
| 3.6 Pipe Reconstruction                                                              | 20 |
| 3.7 Structure Reconstruction                                                         | 21 |
| 4.0 Priority Ranking                                                                 | 22 |
| 5.0 Accreditation Considerations                                                     | 31 |
| 6.0 Resiliency Construction                                                          | 32 |
| 6.1 Sponsor Construction and Section 408                                             | 32 |
| 6.2 P.L. 84-99 Repairs                                                               | 32 |
| 6.3 Current and Future Spinoff Studies                                               | 32 |
| 6.4 Reconstruction Authority                                                         | 32 |
| LIST OF FIGURES                                                                      |    |
| Figure 1. Annual Exceedance Probabilities of Existing Levees in Reaches SP03 to SP06 | 6  |
| Figure 2. Annual Exceedance Probabilities of Existing Levees in Reaches SP06 to SP09 |    |
| Figure 3. Annual Exceedance Probabilities of Existing Levees in Reach SP09           | 8  |

| Figure 4. Annual Exceedance Probabilities of Existing Levees in Reach SP10<br>9     |    |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| Figure 5. 2019 Breach Repair Plan in Holt County                                    | 14 |
| Figure 7 2019 Simplified Inflow Modeled Hydrographs at Rulo Gaging Location Using a |    |
| Non-Breach and a Simple Breach Scheme Versus USGS Measurements.<br>                 | 16 |
| Figure 8. 2019 Simplified Inflow Modeled Hydrographs at St. Joseph Gaging Location  |    |
| Using a Non-Breach and a Simple Breach Scheme Versus USGS Measurements.<br>         | 16 |
| Figure 6. Plot of Leveed Area Size by River Mile<br>                                | 17 |
| LIST OF TABLES                                                                      |    |
| Table 1. Resiliency Measures with Priority Ranking<br>                              | 24 |

## <span id="page-3-0"></span>**1.0 INTRODUCTION**

Levees reduce the risk of flooding, but do not eliminate it. A levee is generally designed to exclude floodwater from the leveed area over a limited range of flood events. If a larger flood occurs, floodwaters will flow over the levee. Almost three quarters of the levees in this study area have an annual exceedance probability (AEP) of 0.01 or greater. **[Figure 1](#page-4-0)** through **[Figure 4](#page-7-0)** below illustrate the current annual exceedance probabilities, pulled from the National Levee Database, in the study area. These existing AEPs were all calculated from initial screening level risk assessment done from 2011- 2021 using the available data at the time, mainly the 2003 Upper Mississippi River System Flow Frequency Study.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 1. Annual Exceedance Probabilities of Existing Levees in Reaches SP03 to SP06**

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 2. Annual Exceedance Probabilities of Existing Levees in Reaches SP06 to SP09**

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 3. Annual Exceedance Probabilities of Existing Levees in Reach SP09**

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 4. Annual Exceedance Probabilities of Existing Levees in Reach SP10**

In addition to overtopping, all levees have the potential to breach prior to overtopping. Proper operation and maintenance reduces the likelihood of poor performance but even well maintained levees can breach when loaded especially during long duration Missouri River flood events.

This theme identifies resiliency measures for existing federal and non-federal levees that are active in the P.L. 84-99 Rehabilitation Program. These resiliency measures are focused on reducing performance risk as well as reducing the damages caused by overtopping and the time needed for repairs to help the communities bounce back faster. The resiliency measures considered are listed below. These measures are outside of the levee sponsors regular operation and maintenance of the levee system. Resiliency measures were not individually modeled but the hydraulic model was used to help identify locations for these measures.

# <span id="page-9-0"></span>**2.0 RESILIENCY MEASURES**

#### <span id="page-9-1"></span>**2.1 Planned Overtopping**

This measure focuses on designating an overtopping location on a levee system, typically on the downstream section, so that the leveed area can fill slowly from the downstream end. This measure reduces the damages that can be caused by a levee overtopping at the upstream end allowing water to rush through the leveed area from upstream to downstream, resulting in reverse overtopping and breaching on the downstream section or downstream tieback. This measure can be combined with Overtopping Erosion Protection to reduce the likelihood of breaching due to overtopping.

## <span id="page-9-2"></span>**2.2 Overtopping Erosion Protection**

This measure focuses on reducing the likelihood that the levee will breach when overtopped, as overtopping breaches are the most common risk driver on the Missouri River. Levee erosion protection can be done at a planned overtopping location or along large stretches of the levee where overtopping is expected.

### <span id="page-9-3"></span>**2.3 Raise/Armor Tie Backs:**

This measure focused on raising, armoring and extending, if needed, upstream tie backs, to reduce the likelihood of cascading breaches that have been seen in all major flood events on the Lower Missouri River. These can be done in connection with, or independent of, planned overtopping and armoring.

# <span id="page-9-4"></span>**2.4 Seepage Improvements**

This measure focuses on improving levee performance by reducing the risk of seepage failures. Seepage improvements considered include construction of new relief wells or underseepage berms, reconstruction of relief wells whose specific capacities are no longer sufficient, reconstruction of relief wells with wooden screens, or conversion of relief wells to underseepage berms that have a lower risk of failure.

# <span id="page-9-5"></span>**2.5 Improved/Reconstructed Revetment**

This measure focuses on reducing the risk of levee breaches prior to overtopping caused by high velocity flows that erode through the levee cross section. This measure includes replacing riprap revetments that have degraded overtime as the rock naturally breaks down due to repeated loading and cycles of freeze – thaw. It also looks at replacing grass slopes with rock riprap that is more resistant to erosion.

# <span id="page-10-0"></span>**2.6 Pipe Reconstruction**

This measure focuses on reconstruction of pipes that have exceeded their expected service life. Due to long term degradation of their construction materials, these pipes cannot be relied upon to function as designed. The focus on this measure is reconstruction or replacement of metal pipes.

#### <span id="page-10-1"></span>**2.7 Structure Reconstruction**

This measure focuses on reconstruction of structures, other than pipes and relief wells, on levee systems that have reached the end of their design life such as pump stations, floodwalls, and closure structures.

# <span id="page-11-0"></span>**3.0 RESILIENCY MEASURES SCREENING**

Resiliency measures were applied to each levee based on risk drivers. All the federal levees and most of the non-federal levees have screening level risk assessments (SLRA) completed by USACE. In each of those screenings, an annual exceedance probability was determined for each levee based on existing modeling and available data. These SLRAs were completed between 2011 and 2021. In 2018, the USACE published the Levee Portfolio Report summarizing levee risk assessment results throughout the nation to date. This report states that the most common risk driver in levee performance is when the levee is overtopped and breaches. This is the case for almost all the levees on the Missouri River. The Portfolio Report states most levee systems within the portfolio have an AEP of 0.005. On the Lower Missouri River that number is even greater. Of the 123 levee systems in this study with an identified AEP, 89 of them (or 72 percent) have an AEP of 0.01 or greater. Of the 76 non-federal levees that have an SLRA, 72 of them (or 95 percent) have an AEP of 0.01 or greater. The high AEPs combined with long duration of flooding make overtopping breaches the biggest risk on the Lower Missouri River. Three of the resiliency measures - planned overtopping, overtopping erosion protection, and raising or extending tie backs - are focused on reducing the likelihood of levee breaches due to overtopping. The other four - seepage improvements, levee erosion protection prior to overtopping, pipe reconstruction, and structure reconstruction - are focused on improving the levees performance prior to being overtopped. Of these four, pipe reconstruction will have the biggest impact on the lower Missouri levee portfolio. The way that each resiliency measure was applied to the levees in this study is discussed below.

# <span id="page-11-1"></span>**3.1 Planned Overtopping**

When properly designed and constructed, a designed overtopping location can be effective at reducing damages in the levees area and reducing the number of overtopping breaches. Planned overtopping locations are generally built on the downstream end of a levee with the rest of the levee being built tall enough so that the levee will overtop at the planned location. By overtopping on the downstream end, the leveed area will fill slowly, reducing water velocity in the levees area and thus reducing damages, increasing evacuation times, and lowering the risk of exit breaches on the tie back levees that cascade down through multiple levee systems.

In 2019, water in the leveed area after L-536-550 overtopped flowed south and breached the tie back on the north bank of Mill Creek. This then breached the levee on the south side of Mill Creek flooding the area behind the Corning levee. Water flowed at high speed through the leveed area and then breached the tie back on both sides of the Big Tarkio creek, flooding the leveed area behind Union Township and Holt County 10 levees. Water continued to flow south and breach the tie backs between the Holt County 10 levee and the Holt County 9 levee as well. **[Figure 5](#page-12-0)** shows the locations of the tie back breaches on Mill Creek and Big Tarkio in 2019.

<span id="page-12-0"></span>**Figure 5. 2019 Breach Repair Plan in Holt County**

Although planned overtopping locations can be very effective at reducing damages, they will not work on every levee. The overtopping location must be able to let in enough water to fill the leveed area prior to the levee overtopping at other locations. This can be difficult to predict especially on the non-federal levees. Planned overtopping also requires the sponsor to activate the overtopping location as designed with sufficient time for the area to begin to fill. Sponsors must rely on river forecasts and cannot wait too long to see how accurate the forecast is going to be. Sugartree is one non-federal levee segment in the Kansas City District with a planned overtopping location. The sponsor must excavate about six to ten feet of the levee height. It was constructed in 2007, and has been activated successfully several times, including in 2019. Wakenda is another non-federal levee with a designated overtopping point to let water out of the leveed area without breaching though it has not been very effective. Other areas have been previously looked at over the years to design overtopping locations, but the modeling has shown it not very effective because of the difficulty in filling the area fast enough to prevent damages.

This measure was selected for levees that are part of a current spin off studies as USACE generally designs federal levees to overtop at the downstream end. It was also applied to federal and non-federal levees with large, leveed areas where there would be more benefits in reducing damages caused by fast flowing water and in reducing the number of breaches. After the 2019 flood it was noted that the exit breaches from MRLS L-575, L-550 and 246-L, that all have large, leveed areas, impacted river stages for 100's of miles downstream. **[Figure 7](#page-14-0)** and **[Figure 8](#page-14-1)** show the resulting hydrographs at the Rulo and St. Joseph gaging location from a model simulation of a 2019 simulation using the future without project (FWOP) model with and without breaches from Nebraska City to St. Joseph. Breaches led to a better match with USGS recorded 2019 data and significantly higher measured peak flow at the downstream gage locations as compared to the non-breach simulation. The sudden increase in peaks in the breach simulation is being driven by outlet breaches occurring after the upstream levee units breach. Reducing the likelihood of exit breaches on the levees with large, leveed areas would have benefits for large, populated areas downstream. **[Figure 6](#page-15-0)** plots the leveed areas by size and river mile.

#### <span id="page-14-0"></span>**Figure 6 2019 Simplified Inflow Modeled Hydrographs at Rulo Gaging Location Using a Non-Breach and a Simple Breach Scheme Versus USGS Measurements.**

<span id="page-14-1"></span>**Figure 7. 2019 Simplified Inflow Modeled Hydrographs at St. Joseph Gaging Location Using a Non-Breach and a Simple Breach Scheme Versus USGS Measurements.**

<span id="page-15-0"></span>**Figure 8. Plot of Leveed Area Size by River Mile**

Thirty-one levee system were identified as potentially benefitting from a designed overtopping location based on leveed area size and past performance. Modeling was not done on each levee system. Further analysis and design is needed to determine if planned overtopping would be effective at each identified location. For cost estimating purposes for this study, a general assumption was made that the overtopping section would be 10 percent of the levee length. This was based on preliminary design assumptions of current spinoff study levees. The assumption was made that the cost to construct a planned overtopping section would be in raising the other 90 percent of the levee by 1 foot so that the existing AEP of the levee will not be lowered. The planned overtopping section would remain as-is without alteration.

#### <span id="page-16-0"></span>**3.2 Overtopping Erosion Protection**

With overtopping leading to breach being the largest risk driver, reducing the likelihood of a levee breaching would have a significant impact on the Missouri River levee portfolio. Riprap has been the standard erosion protection solution along the Missouri River for decades. Properly designed, shaped, and graded riprap can be very effective. However, it can also be costly to install and eventually needs to be replaced as it breaks down. More recently, high performance turf reinforcement mats (HPTRMs) are being installed on USACE levees. USACE worked with Colorado State University to test erosion resiliency of HPTRMs for 500-year hurricane overtopping conditions. According to Propex, more than 100 million yards of their brand of HPTRMs have been installed on USACE costal and river levees. Repairs on L-575 levee in Hamburg, IA after the 2019 flood included 250,000 square yards of HPTRM. Another option would be to flatten landside slopes. The National Levee Safety Program recommends that levees should generally not be steeper than 3 horizontal on 1 vertical (3H:1V). The most common levee slopes on Missouri River levees are 3H:1V. Flattening slopes to 4H:1V or 5H:1V, or flatter, not only increases their stability, it reduces the velocity at which water flows over them thus reducing the chance of breaching.

This measure was applied to all 31 levees that were identified as potential areas for planned overtopping as well as all remaining non-federal levee systems and two federal systems that had a more frequent AEP, for a total of 90 levee systems. A representative length of 10 percent was used for cost estimating purposes. This was based on preliminary analysis done in the Holt County spinoff study that showed the Holt County 10 and Corning levees need about 10 percent of the levee length armored to prevent overtopping breaches at the more frequent overtopping events. On Holt 10 that was a 1 in 10-year event. The analysis also showed that for a 1 in 25-year event, Holt 10 would need about 60 percent of the levee length armored to prevent breaching.

#### <span id="page-16-1"></span>**3.3 Raise/Armor Tiebacks**

Overtopping breaches along the levee tiebacks that cascade downstream causing multiple levee systems to breach has been a repeated issue during large flood events on the Missouri River. As discussed in the planned overtopping section, the overtopping of L-536-550 in 2019 resulted in an exit breach on the Mill Creek levee tieback that then continued to breach the tiebacks down to the Kimsey, Holly, and Canon leveed area. In

1993, cascading failures along the tiebacks of the non-federal levees on the left bank extended from Liberty Bend levee to Brunswick. MRLS 246-L also overtopped resulting in an exit breach on the Lower Chariton tie back that then breached the tieback of the Lower Chariton federal levee. Levees that have tiebacks that are shorter than the mainstem levee and levees with tiebacks up tributaries where the levees on both sides are close to each other are especially vulnerable. Raising, and extending if needed, the upstream tieback reduces the likelihood of levees overtopping on the upstream tieback and sending water rushing through the leveed area that can result in an exit breach on the downstream tieback. Armoring the tieback reduces the likelihood of the upstream tieback being breached by water rushing out of an exit breach on the tieback of the upstream levee that is on the opposite bank of a tributary.

This measure was applied to levees that had a history of cascading breaches or to those identified as vulnerable due to the closeness of the tie backs along tributaries. The FWOP H&H model was used to estimate the raise height or extension length needed at each identified location.

#### <span id="page-17-0"></span>**3.4 Seepage Improvements**

This measure was focused mainly on the federal levees that generally have low AEPs and are loaded for longer times prior to or without overtopping. Levees with lower AEPs can have performance prior to overtopping risk that is as much as or higher than the risk of overtopping and breach. This measure was applied to federal levees with a previously identified seepage deficiency as well as three non-federal levees that have a lower AEP and seepage concerns. Seepage deficiencies included relief wells that are performing at less than 80 percent of their original specific capacity despite efforts to rejuvenate them; relief wells with a known deficiency, despite regular maintenance on the wells, that could allow material to enter the well; or on relief wells with wooden screens that are at a higher risk of collapse than those with stainless steel screens. Underperforming relief wells reduce the factor of safety on levee underseepage performance. Damaged or deteriorated relief wells allow native material to enter the well increasing the risk of a backwards erosion and piping failure of the levee.

## <span id="page-17-1"></span>**3.5 Improved/Reconstructed Revetment**

Similar to the seepage improvements measure, this measure was focused mainly on the federal levees where the AEPs are lower and the performance risk prior to overtopping is higher. This measure was applied to federal levees that were noted as having significant riverside scour during past flood events or whose original riprap has been noted as deteriorated and needing replacement on past inspections.

# <span id="page-18-0"></span>**3.6 Pipe Reconstruction**

Almost every levee in the USACE levee safety program has one, and usually multiple, drainage pipe running through the levee. Many also have buried seepage collector pipes that run perpendicular to the levee or flood wall. The Levee Safety Portfolio report states that "Deteriorating culverts and improper culvert construction techniques are a significant source of poor levee performance. Roughly 40 percent of the levee systems that have culverts are highly likely to contribute to seepage and piping failure modes leading to a levee breach. Culverts running through the embankment or foundation are the most common contributor to embankment and foundation seepage for the levee portfolio. This is primarily due to the poor condition of the culvert."

The National Levee Database includes 1,304 drainage pipes on the Lower Missouri federal and non-federal levees with the following breakout of materials: 1 brick, 238 concrete, 27 galvanized steel, 243 steel, 5 plastic, 9 polyvinyl chloride (PVC), 678 CMP, 58 other and 45 not defined. This does not include seepage collector and toe drain pipes running parallel to the levees, that are also primarily CMP. These CMP and other metal pipes are at increased risk of collapse as they age, increasing the risk of poor performance of the levee system. A 1992 memo from the Missouri River Division to the Omaha and Kansas City districts titled Drainage Structures Through Existing Levees highlighted concerns of levees with CMP pipes that are approaching their expected service life as well as with additional drainage structures installed on federal levees by local sponsors. The memo directs the districts to ensure all pipes are inspected and that corrective actions are being taken when open joints are found. A follow-on memo in 1994 further directed districts to develop a plan of action for assuring satisfactory performance of local protection projects after failures during the 1993 flood further highlighted the concerns on pipe age, condition and improper installation. During the 2019 flood numerous private drainage structures collapsed and formed sinkholes near levees. Levee sponsors and utility operators had to take immediate steps to ensure that the sinkholes did not threaten the stability or underseepage performance of the levees. Although pipe inspections are required on all federal and active non-federal levees every 5 years, visual inspections are not sufficient to determine if a metal pipe is still structurally adequate and can even give a false indication that the pipe is in acceptable condition. Metal pipes tend to deteriorate from the outside in, resulting in a reduction in strength. There is no indication of loss of strength on a metal pipe when a levee is not loaded. But once the soil above the pipe becomes saturated, a weak pipe can no longer support the weight of the soil and will collapse. Depending on the flood loading on the levee at the time, this can lead to a breach prior to overtopping. Deterioration of cmp pipes running parallel to the levee can also lead to performance concern when they deteriorate and allow material to enter the pipe.

This measure was applied to all the federal and non-federal levees that have metal drainage or seepage collector pipes. The average age of the levees in the study, with construction dates listed in the NLD, is 60 years. In the system plan public meetings, the need for pipe lining or replacement was the most mentioned concern in terms of levee performance prior to overtopping.

### <span id="page-19-0"></span>**3.7 Structure Reconstruction**

This measure was focused mainly on the federal levees where the AEPs are lower and the performance risk prior to overtopping is higher. This measure was applied to levees with structures that are beyond their expected service life with noted degradation or known deficiencies, not related to deficient maintenance, that reduce the reliability of the structure. The majority of the structure reconstruction measures focused on federal levees with pump stations that are over 50 years old. Federally constructed pump stations are almost all integral to the successful operation of the levees relief wells. Most of the federal pump stations on the Lower Missouri River were constructed in the 1940s and 50s. With out-of-date equipment and replacement parts that are increasingly hard to find the reliability of these pump stations performing as designed is reduced. This measure was also applied to deteriorated or poorly designed closure structures and floodwalls in need of reconstruction due to deteriorated foundations.

# <span id="page-20-0"></span>**4.0 PRIORITY RANKING**

To help stakeholders focus on measures that would be the most effective the resiliency measures were put into groups of High, Medium and Low priority based on performance and consequence risk drivers.

The highest priority measures include:

- 1. Planned overtopping on the largest leveed areas identified as too big to fail. Benefits of preventing exit breaches on these levees can be seen for hundreds of miles downstream.
- 2. Overtopping erosion protection on levees that are high priority for planned overtopping as well as those that have an AEP of 0.01 or greater and population at risk.
- 3. Modification of tie-backs on levee that are high priority for planned overtopping and/or it appears that there is potential benefit in reduction of tieback failures.
- 4. Pipe replacement/reconstruction, seepage improvements, and improved/reconstructed revetment on levees that with an AEP of 0.01 or less and population at risk.

#### **Medium:**

- 1. Structure reconstruction on levees that with an AEP of 0.01 or less and population at risk.
- 2. Pipe replacement/reconstruction, seepage improvements, and improved/reconstructed revetment on levees that with an AEP greater than 0.01 and population at risk.
- 3. Planned OT locations on other levees that were identified in the resiliency list that also have PAR.
- 4. Overtopping erosion protection on those identified as medium priority for planned overtopping.
- 5. Modification of tie-backs to prevent cascading failure.

#### **Low:**

- 1. Overtopping erosion protection on levees with AEP less than 0.01 or no PAR.
- 2. All other measures on levees with no PAR

**[Table 1](#page-22-0)** shows the resiliency measures selected for each levee system. The high and medium priority of selected measures are shown on maps in **Appendix G**. The selected

| measures for mapping include raise/extending tiebacks, seepage improvements, pipe<br>reconstruction, and structure reconstruction. |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                    |

<span id="page-22-0"></span>**Table 1. Resiliency Measures with Priority Ranking** 

| Reach # | MO<br>River<br>Bank | System<br>Type | USACE<br>District | Mid<br>Point<br>River<br>Mile | NLD System<br>ID | System Name                                      | Length<br>in Miles | Planned<br>OT (M18) | Overtopping<br>Erosion<br>Protection<br>(M19) | Raise or<br>extend tie<br>backs<br>(M31) | Seepage<br>improvements<br>(M16) | Levee<br>Erosion<br>Protection,<br>Prior to OT<br>(M19) | Pipe<br>Reconstruction<br>(M17) | Structure<br>Reconstruction<br>(M32) |
|---------|---------------------|----------------|-------------------|-------------------------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|         |                     |                |                   |                               |                  | Omaha -<br>Missouri                              |                    |                     |                                               |                                          | H*                               | H*                                                      | H*                              | M*                                   |
| SP3     | Right               | Federal        | Omaha             | 618.5                         | 4705000082       | River RB                                         | 12.2               |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP3     | Left                | Federal        | Omaha             | 614                           | 4705000037       | L-627 MO River LB &<br>Indian Creek RB           | 14.9               |                     |                                               | M                                        | H*                               | H*                                                      | H*                              | M*                                   |
|         |                     |                |                   |                               |                  | L-624 MoRiv LB &                                 |                    |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
|         |                     |                |                   |                               |                  | Indian LB & Mosquito                             |                    |                     |                                               | M                                        | H*                               | H*                                                      | H*                              |                                      |
| SP3     | Left                | Federal        | Omaha             | 607                           | 4705000036       | Creek RB                                         | 8.9                |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
|         |                     |                |                   |                               |                  | L-624-627-611-614 -                              |                    |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
|         |                     |                |                   |                               |                  | Mosquito Cr & Upper                              |                    |                     |                                               | M                                        |                                  | M*                                                      | M*                              |                                      |
| SP3     | Left                | Federal        | Omaha             | 606                           | 4705000034       | Pony Cr                                          | 7.4                |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
|         |                     |                |                   |                               |                  | L-611-614-MoRiv LB &<br>Upr Pony Creek LB &      |                    | H                   | H                                             | H                                        | M*                               |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP3-SP4 | Left                | Federal        | Omaha             | 598.5                         | 4705000033       | L1B LB                                           | 21.1               |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
|         |                     |                |                   |                               |                  | R-616-613 -<br>MO Riv                            |                    |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP3     | Right               | Federal        | Omaha             | 598.5                         | 4705000093       | RB & Papillion Cr LB                             | 9.7                |                     |                                               | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
|         |                     |                |                   |                               |                  | R-613 -<br>Platte LB &                           |                    |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
|         |                     |                |                   |                               |                  | Papillion RB & MO                                |                    | M                   | H                                             | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP3-SP4 | Right               | Federal        | Omaha             | 595.5                         | 4705000090       | River RB                                         | 9.0                |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
|         |                     |                |                   |                               |                  | L-601 -<br>Watkins Ditch                         |                    |                     |                                               | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP4     | Left                | Federal        | Omaha             | 588                           | 4705000032       | RB -<br>Watkins DD                               | 3.3                |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP4     | Left                | Federal        | Omaha             | 584                           | 4705000031       | L-594-601                                        | 14.5               | M                   | M                                             | M                                        | M*                               |                                                         | M*                              |                                      |
|         |                     | Non            |                   |                               |                  | Lake Waconda -                                   |                    |                     | L                                             |                                          | H*                               | H*                                                      | H*                              |                                      |
| SP4     | Right               | federal        | Omaha             | 578                           | 4705000121       | Missouri River RB (NF)<br>L-594-575 (BW-PV       | 2.5                |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP4     | Left                | Federal        | Omaha             | 577                           | 4705000029       | Waubonsie)                                       | 12.8               | M                   | M                                             | M                                        | M*                               |                                                         | M*                              |                                      |
|         |                     |                |                   |                               |                  | L-575 (BW-McKissock<br>Buchanan-Atchison         |                    | H                   | H                                             | H                                        | M*                               |                                                         | M*                              |                                      |
| SP4     | Left                | Federal        | Omaha             | 559                           | 4705000030       | Hamburg)                                         | 41.8               |                     |                                               |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP4     | Right               | Federal        | Omaha             | 554.5                         | 4705000095       | R-573 -<br>Missouri River<br>RB                  | 5.9                |                     |                                               | M                                        | H*                               |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP4     | Right               | Federal        | Omaha             | 544                           | 4705000089       | R-562 -<br>Peru -<br>Missouri<br>River RB        | 7.5                | M                   | M                                             | M                                        | M*                               |                                                         | M*                              |                                      |
| SP4     | Left                | Federal        | Omaha             | 544                           | 4705000042       | L-561 -<br>Nishnabotna<br>LB                     | 8.7                |                     |                                               | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP4-SP5 | Left                | Federal        | Omaha             | 533                           | 4705000041       | L-550-561 -<br>Missouri<br>River LB              | 31.8               | H                   | H                                             | H                                        | M*                               | M*                                                      | M*                              |                                      |
| SP5     | Right               | Federal        | Omaha             | 531.5                         | 4705000083       | R-548 -<br>Missouri River<br>& Little Nemaha     | 7.2                |                     | M                                             | M                                        | M*                               |                                                         | M*                              |                                      |
| SP5     | Right               | Federal        | Omaha             | 528                           | 4705000087       | R-548 LN -<br>Little<br>Nemaha LB & Moores<br>RB | 2.9                |                     |                                               | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |

| Reach # | MO<br>River<br>Bank | System<br>Type  | USACE<br>District | Mid-<br>Point<br>River<br>Mile | NLD System<br>ID | System Name                                                          | Length in Miles | Planned<br>OT (M18) | Overtopping<br>Erosion<br>Protection<br>(M19) | Raise or extend tie backs (M31) | Seepage<br>improvements<br>(M16) | Levee<br>Erosion<br>Protection,<br>Prior to OT<br>(M19) | Pipe<br>Reconstruction<br>(M17) | Structure<br>Reconstruction<br>(M32) |
|---------|---------------------|-----------------|-------------------|--------------------------------|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| SP5     | Right               | Federal         | Omaha             | 528                            | 4705000088       | R-548 LN - Little<br>Nemaha LB & Happy<br>Hollow RB                  | 2.2             |                     |                                               | М                               |                                  |                                                         | L*                              |                                      |
| SP5     | Right               | Federal         | Omaha             | 528                            | 4705000084       | R-548 LN - Little<br>Nemaha RB & Jarvis<br>Creek LB                  | 3.3             |                     |                                               | М                               |                                  |                                                         | L*                              |                                      |
| SP5     | Right               | Federal         | Omaha             | 528                            | 4705000086       | R-548 LN - Little<br>Nemaha RB & Whiskey<br>Run LB                   | 1.6             |                     |                                               | М                               |                                  |                                                         | L*                              |                                      |
| SP5     | Right               | Federal         | Omaha             | 528                            | 4705000085       | R-548 LN - Little<br>Nemaha RB & Whiskey<br>Run RB                   |                 |                     |                                               | М                               |                                  |                                                         | M*                              |                                      |
| SP5     | Left                | Federal         | Omaha             | 519                            |                  | L-536-550 Turkey Crk<br>LB, Rock Crk LB, Mo<br>Riv LB, & Mill Crk RB | 11.8            | М                   | М                                             | М                               |                                  |                                                         | M*                              |                                      |
| SP5     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 512                            | 3605000226       | ,                                                                    | 11.4            | M                   | Н                                             | М                               |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP5     | Right               | Federal         | Omaha             | 502                            | 4705000092       | R-520 - Missouri River<br>RB                                         | 5.6             |                     | L                                             | М                               | L*                               |                                                         | L*                              |                                      |
| SP5     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 500                            | 3605000017       | Union Township Holt<br>County Number 10                              | 13.8            | Н                   | Н                                             | Н                               |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP5     | Right               | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 496.5                          | 3605000009       | MRLS 512-513-R N                                                     | 11.7            |                     |                                               |                                 | H*                               |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP5     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 489                            | 3605000133       | Holt County Levee<br>District No. 9                                  | 13.5            | M                   | Н                                             | М                               |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP5     | Left                | Non-<br>fed/Fed | Kansas<br>City    | 484.5                          | 3605000129       | Canon Drainage<br>District and Kimsey<br>Holly Creek                 | 13.7            | М                   | М                                             | Н                               |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP5     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 483                            | 3605000218       | MRLS 497-L(1)                                                        | 1.6             | L                   | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP5     | Right               | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 482                            | 3605000138       | MRLS 500-R                                                           | 4.1             | L                   | L                                             | М                               |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP5-SP6 | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 479.5                          | 3605000140       | MRLS 497-L(2)                                                        | 15.3            |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  | H*                                                      | H*                              |                                      |
| SP6     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 470.5                          | 3605000079       | MRLS 488-L (Holt<br>County District No. 7)                           | 11.5            |                     |                                               | М                               |                                  | H*                                                      | H*                              |                                      |
| SP6     | Right               | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 463.5                          | 3605000094       | MRLS 482-R                                                           | 8.3             |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP6     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 457.5                          | 3605000139       | MRLS 476-L                                                           | 10.7            |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP6     | Right               | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 449.5                          | 3605000022       | MRLS 471-460-R                                                       | 13.8            |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP6     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 442                            | 3605000006       | MRLS 455-L                                                           | 15.6            |                     |                                               |                                 | H*                               |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |

| Reach # | MO<br>River<br>Bank | System<br>Type  | USACE<br>District | Mid-<br>Point<br>River<br>Mile | NLD System | System Name                                        | Length in Miles | Planned<br>OT (M18) | Overtopping<br>Erosion<br>Protection<br>(M19) | Raise or extend tie backs (M31) | Seepage<br>improvements<br>(M16) | Levee<br>Erosion<br>Protection,<br>Prior to OT<br>(M19) | Pipe<br>Reconstruction<br>(M17) | Structure<br>Reconstruction<br>(M32) |
|---------|---------------------|-----------------|-------------------|--------------------------------|------------|----------------------------------------------------|-----------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| SP6     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 432.5                          | 3605000024 | MRLS 448-443-L                                     | 17.4            |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP6     | Right               | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 427.5                          | 3605000063 | MRLS 440-R                                         | 10.6            |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP6     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 423                            | 3605000010 | Platte County Drainage<br>District No. 1 Section 1 | 12.2            | Н                   | Н                                             | Н                               |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP6     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 414.5                          |            | Platte County Section 2, Bean Lake                 | 9.4             | Н                   | Н                                             | Н                               |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP6     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 411                            | 3605000077 | Henry Pohl Levee                                   | 4.0             |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP6     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 408                            | 3605000102 | Grape-Bollin-Schwartz Levee Association            | 4.7             |                     | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP7     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 396.5                          |            | MRLS 408-L                                         | 12.2            |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP7     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 391                            | 3605000067 | Kansas Department of Corrections                   | 9.4             |                     | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP7     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 388                            | 3605000025 | MRLS 400-L                                         | 7.3             |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  | H*                                                      | H*                              | M*                                   |
| SP7     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 385.5                          | 3605000125 | Wolcott Drainage<br>District Section 1             | 4.3             |                     | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP7     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 383                            | 3605000122 | Wolcott Drainage<br>District Section 2             | 3.7             |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP7     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 381.5                          | 3605000041 | Wolcott Drainage<br>District Section 3             | 2.4             |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP7     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 374                            | 3605000221 | MRLS 385-L Quindaro<br>Bend                        | 4.0             |                     |                                               |                                 | Н                                |                                                         |                                 | М                                    |
| SP7     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 372                            | 3605000097 | MRLS 385-L Riverside                               | 1.2             |                     |                                               |                                 | Н                                |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP7     | Right               | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 371                            | 3605000119 | Fairfax-Jersey Creek                               | 5.3             |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  | H*                                                      | H*                              | M*                                   |
| SP7     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 367                            | 3605000065 |                                                    | 8.7             |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         | H*                              | M*                                   |
| SP7     | Right               | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 366.5                          | 3605000127 | CID, Central Industrial<br>District                | 1.8             |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  | H*                                                      | H*                              | M*                                   |
| SP7     | Right               | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 362                            | 3605000051 | East Bottoms Unit                                  | 9.1             |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  | H*                                                      | H*                              | M*                                   |
| SP7     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 356.5                          | 3605000121 | Birmingham Unit                                    | 10.8            |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  | M*                                                      |                                 |                                      |
| SP7     | Right               | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 345                            | 3605000098 | MRLS 351-R                                         | 16.0            |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  | H*                                                      | H*                              |                                      |
| SP7     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 338                            | 3605000016 | Egypt L&D District Tri-<br>County Ray Clay Jack    | 13.3            | Н                   | Н                                             | Н                               |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP7-SP8 | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 330                            | 3605000061 | MO Valley D&L Dist of Ray Co. MO, Section 1        | 13.6            | Н                   | Н                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |

| Reach # | MO<br>River<br>Bank | System<br>Type  | USACE<br>District | Mid-<br>Point<br>River<br>Mile | NLD System | System Name                                               | Length<br>in Miles | Planned<br>OT (M18) | Overtopping<br>Erosion<br>Protection<br>(M19) | Raise or extend tie backs (M31) | Seepage<br>improvements<br>(M16) | Levee<br>Erosion<br>Protection,<br>Prior to OT<br>(M19) | Pipe<br>Reconstruction<br>(M17) | Structure<br>Reconstruction<br>(M32) |
|---------|---------------------|-----------------|-------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| CD7 CD0 | l oft               | Non-            | Kansas            | 220                            | 2605000022 | MO Valley D&L Dist of                                     | 2.0                |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP7-SP8 | Left                | federal<br>Non- | City<br>Kansas    | 328                            | 3605000023 | Ray Co. MO, Section 2 MO Valley D&L Dist of               | 2.0                |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP8     | Left                | federal         | City              | 327.5                          | 3605000136 | Ray Co. MO, Section 3                                     | 2.7                |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| 0.0     |                     | Non-            | Kansas            | 02.10                          | 0000000100 | Ray-Lafayette Levee                                       |                    |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         | B.4                             |                                      |
| SP8     | Left                | federal         | City              | 320                            | 3605000059 | Dist No. 1                                                | 25.3               | Н                   | Н                                             | Н                               |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP8     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 306                            | 3605000007 | Ray Carroll Consolidated Levee District of Carroll County | 36.7               | н                   | н                                             | н                               |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP8     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 278                            | 3605000001 | Wakenda Levee<br>District                                 | 21.4               | Н                   | Н                                             | Н                               |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP8     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 278                            | 3605000014 | Malta Coles Saline-<br>Lafayette Teteseau<br>Districts    | 39.1               | Н                   | Н                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP8-SP9 | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 260.5                          | 3605000089 | Mi-De Levee District                                      | 8.2                |                     | L                                             | Н                               |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP9     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 257                            | 3605000078 | Dewitt D&L District of Carroll Co., Section 1             | 0.7                |                     | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP9     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 257                            | 3605000004 | Miami Levee District<br>No. 1                             | 12.6               |                     | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP9     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 256                            | 3605000043 | Dewitt D&L District of Carroll Co., Section 2             | 5.7                |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP9     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 252.5                          | 3605000144 | Brunswick Levee<br>District                               | 9.8                |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP9     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 249                            | 3605000058 | Saline County Levee District                              | 7.1                |                     | М                                             | М                               |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP9     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 244.5                          | 3605000046 |                                                           | 33.5               | Н                   | Н                                             |                                 | M*                               |                                                         | M*                              |                                      |
| SP9     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 233                            |            | Cambridge Levee<br>Assn., Inc. (NFP)                      | 4.0                |                     | L                                             | М                               |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP9     | Left                | Federal         | Kansas<br>City    | 233                            |            | Lower Chariton                                            | 20.3               | Н                   | Н                                             | Н                               |                                  |                                                         | H*                              |                                      |
| SP9     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 228.5                          | 3605000142 | Northeastern Saline<br>Levee Association                  | 3.3                |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP9     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 222                            | 3605000054 | West Glasgow Levee<br>District of Saline<br>County, MO    | 16.8               |                     | M                                             | М                               |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP9     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 221                            |            | Levee District Number<br>6 of Howard County               | 3.5                |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP9     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 212                            | 3605000012 | Howard County Drainage District No. 3,                    | 1.4                |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP9     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 205                            | 3605000109 | Linneman-Weekly<br>Levee, Inc.                            | 3.8                |                     | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |

| Reach #      | MO<br>River<br>Bank | System<br>Type      | USACE<br>District | Mid<br>-<br>Point<br>River<br>Mile | NLD System<br>ID | System Name                                 | Length<br>in Miles | Planned<br>OT (M18) | Overtopping<br>Erosion<br>Protection<br>(M19) | Raise or<br>extend tie<br>backs<br>(M31) | Seepage<br>improvements<br>(M16) | Levee<br>Erosion<br>Protection,<br>Prior to OT<br>(M19) | Pipe<br>Reconstruction<br>(M17) | Structure<br>Reconstruction<br>(M32) |
|--------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------|------------------------------------|------------------|---------------------------------------------|--------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| SP9          | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 205                                | 3605000031       | Levee District Number<br>2 of Howard County | 17.9               | H                   | H                                             | H                                        |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP9          | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 196                                | 3605000030       | Howard County Levee<br>District No. 4       | 12.2               |                     | M                                             | H                                        |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP9          | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 190.5                              | 3605000011       | Bonne Femme Levee<br>District No. 1         | 14.3               |                     | M                                             | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP9          | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 181.5                              | 3605000104       | Levee District No. 1 of<br>Cooper County    | 7.3                |                     | M                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP9          | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 177.5                              | 3605000064       | McBaine Levee District                      | 10.6               |                     | M                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP9          | Right               | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 169.5                              | 3605000128       | Plowboy Bend Levee<br>Association           | 8.8                |                     | L                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP9          | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 157.5                              | 3605000000       | Hartsburg Levee<br>District, Section 1      | 7.3                |                     | M                                             | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP9          | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 154.5                              | 3605000116       | Hartsburg Levee<br>District, Section 2      | 5.6                |                     | M                                             | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP9          | Right               | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 153.5                              | 3605000075       | Prison Farm Levee                           | 3.8                |                     | L                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP9          | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 152.5                              | 3605000076       | Hartsburg Levee<br>District, Section 3      | 6.5                |                     | L                                             | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP9          | Right               | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 149                                | 3605000145       | Cole Junction Levee<br>District             | 7.6                |                     | L                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP9          | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 145.5                              | 3605000056       | Renz Levee District                         | 3.7                |                     | M                                             | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP9<br>-SP10 | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 142                                | 3605000070       | Capital View Drainage<br>District           | 7.3                |                     | M                                             | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP10         | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 138.5                              | 3605000131       | Reveaux Drainage<br>District                | 6.6                |                     | L                                             | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP10         | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 135.5                              | 3605000130       | Wainwright Levee<br>District                | 5.5                |                     | L                                             | M                                        |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP10         | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 131                                | 3605000110       | Jacobs Levee District                       | 2.5                |                     | L                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP10         | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 127.5                              | 3605000107       | Tebbetts East Levee<br>District             | 8.7                |                     | M                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP10         | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 122                                | 3605000003       | Mokane Levee District                       | 3.6                |                     | M                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP10         | Right               | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 121.5                              | 3605000106       | Chamois Levee<br>District, Section 1        | 1.8                |                     | L                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP10         | Right               | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 120                                | 3605000032       | Chamois Levee<br>District, Section 2        | 2.9                |                     | L                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP10         | Left                | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 119.5                              | 3605000112       | Steedman Levee<br>District                  | 7.4                |                     | M                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP10         | Right               | Non<br>-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 113                                | 3605000035       | A<br>-1 Levee Association                   | 11.8               |                     | M                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |

| Reach #  | MO<br>River<br>Bank | System<br>Type  | USACE<br>District | Mid-<br>Point<br>River<br>Mile | NLD System  | System Name                                         | Length<br>in Miles | Planned<br>OT (M18) | Overtopping<br>Erosion<br>Protection<br>(M19) | Raise or extend tie backs (M31) | Seepage<br>improvements<br>(M16) | Levee<br>Erosion<br>Protection,<br>Prior to OT<br>(M19) | Pipe<br>Reconstruction<br>(M17) | Structure<br>Reconstruction<br>(M32) |
|----------|---------------------|-----------------|-------------------|--------------------------------|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| SP10     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 109                            | 3605000088  | Diermann Levee<br>District                          | 2.8                |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| 31 10    | Tagrit              | Non-            | Kansas            | 109                            | 3003000000  | Morrison Lower Bottom                               | 2.0                |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP10     | Right               | federal         | City              | 107                            | 3605000034  | Levee District                                      | 3.7                |                     | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| 0040     |                     | Non-            | Kansas            | 400 5                          | 0005000405  | Tri-County Levee                                    | 40.4               |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP10     | Left                | federal<br>Non- | City<br>Kansas    | 103.5                          | 3605000105  | District, Sec 1 Tri-County Levee                    | 12.1               |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP10     | Left                | federal         | City              | 95                             | 3605000053  | District Sec 2                                      | 9.7                |                     | M                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| <u> </u> | LOIL                | Non-            | Kansas            |                                | - 000000000 | Berger Levee District of                            |                    |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         | B 4                             |                                      |
| SP10     | Right               | federal         | City              | 88                             | 3605000151  | Franklin County, MO                                 | 17.1               | Н                   | Н                                             | Н                               |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| 00/2     |                     |                 | Kansas            |                                |             |                                                     |                    |                     |                                               |                                 | M*                               | M*                                                      | M*                              |                                      |
| SP10     | Right               | Federal         | City              | 81.5                           | 3605000117  | New Haven                                           | 0.4                |                     |                                               |                                 | 141                              |                                                         | 141                             |                                      |
| SP10     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 78                             | 3605000029  | MO Valley L.D. Sec 1                                | 15.6               | Н                   | Н                                             | Н                               |                                  |                                                         | Н                               |                                      |
| 01 10    | Leit                | Non-            | Kansas            | 70                             | 300300029   | Holtmeier Levee                                     | 13.0               |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP10     | Right               | federal         | City              | 73                             | 3605000028  | Association, Inc.                                   | 2.2                |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
|          |                     | Non-            | Kansas            |                                |             | MO Valley L.D. Sec 2                                |                    |                     | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP10     | Left                | federal         | City              | 73                             | 3605000084  | (Charrette Bottom)                                  | 2.9                |                     | IVI                                           |                                 |                                  |                                                         | IVI                             |                                      |
| 0040     | D: 11               | Non-            | Kansas            | 70.5                           | 0005000444  | St. Johns Bottom                                    |                    |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP10     | Right               | federal<br>Non- | City<br>Kansas    | 70.5                           | 3605000111  | Levee Association, Inc.                             | 5.2                |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP10     | Left                | federal         | City              | 70                             | 3605000074  | Tuque Creek Levee                                   | 9.2                |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP10     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | St. Louis         | 63                             | 5605820001  | Augusta Bottom and<br>Dutzow Bottom Levee<br>System | 17.1               | н                   | н                                             |                                 |                                  | M                                                       | М                               |                                      |
|          |                     | Non-            | Kansas            |                                |             | Labadie Bottom Levee,                               |                    |                     | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| SP10     | Right               | federal         | City              | 59.5                           | 3605000083  | Section 4                                           | 4.9                |                     | IVI                                           |                                 |                                  |                                                         | IVI                             |                                      |
| SP10     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | Kansas<br>City    | 56                             | 3605000013  | *                                                   | 9.5                |                     | L                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | L                               |                                      |
| SP10     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | St. Louis         | 52                             | 5605810001  | Darst Bottom Levee<br>System                        | 6.8                | М                   | М                                             |                                 |                                  | М                                                       | М                               |                                      |
| SP10     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | St. Louis         | 48.5                           | 5605830001  | Missouri University<br>Levee System                 | 2.8                |                     | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| <u> </u> |                     | .040/4/         | J.: 200.0         | 10.0                           | 22222222    | Monarch Chesterfield                                | 2.0                |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP10     | Right               | Federal         | St. Louis         | 42                             | 5605050001  | Levee District System                               | 11.7               |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
|          |                     | Non-            |                   |                                |             | Greens Bottom Levee                                 |                    |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP10     | Left                | federal         | St. Louis         | 39.5                           | 5605860001  | Sec1 System                                         | 1.2                |                     | _                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP10     | Left                | Non-<br>federal | St. Louis         | 36.5                           | 5605870001  | Greens Bottom Levee<br>Sec2 System                  | 7.4                |                     | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |
| OF IU    | LOIL                | Non-            | Ji. Louis         | 30.3                           | 3003070001  | Howard Bend Levee                                   | 1.4                |                     |                                               |                                 |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP10     | Right               | federal         | St. Louis         | 33.5                           | 5605220001  | District System                                     | 6.2                | M                   | М                                             |                                 |                                  | Н                                                       | Н                               |                                      |
| SP10     | Right               | Non-<br>federal | St. Louis         | 29.5                           | 5605380001  | Riverport Levee District                            | 2.6                | М                   | М                                             |                                 |                                  |                                                         | М                               |                                      |

| Reach # | MO<br>River<br>Bank | System<br>Type | USACE<br>District | Mid<br>Point<br>River<br>Mile | NLD System<br>ID | System Name                               | Length<br>in Miles | Planned<br>OT (M18) | Overtopping<br>Erosion<br>Protection<br>(M19) | Raise or<br>extend tie<br>backs<br>(M31) | Seepage<br>improvements<br>(M16) | Levee<br>Erosion<br>Protection,<br>Prior to OT<br>(M19) | Pipe<br>Reconstruction<br>(M17) | Structure<br>Reconstruction<br>(M32) |
|---------|---------------------|----------------|-------------------|-------------------------------|------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| SP10    | Right               | Non<br>federal | St. Louis         | 28                            | 5605120001       | Earth City Levee<br>District System       | 2.5                | M                   | M                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP10    | Right               | Non<br>federal | St. Louis         | 24.5                          | 5605840001       | Missouri Bottoms<br>Levee System          | 6.0                |                     | M                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         | M                               |                                      |
| SP10    | Left                | Federal        | St. Louis         | 15.5                          | 5605890001       | Consolidated North<br>County Levee System | 37.4               | H                   | H                                             |                                          |                                  | M                                                       | M                               |                                      |
| SP10    | Right               | Non<br>federal | St. Louis         | 2.5                           | 5605660001       | Columbia Bottoms<br>Levee System          | 7.8                |                     | H                                             |                                          |                                  |                                                         |                                 |                                      |
| SP10    | Left                | Non<br>federal | St. Louis         | 2                             | 5605670001       | Kuhs Levee System                         | 7.2                |                     | L                                             |                                          |                                  | L                                                       | L                               |                                      |

<sup>\*</sup> denotes items potentially eligible for federal reconstruction authority

# <span id="page-29-0"></span>**5.0 ACCREDITATION CONSIDERATIONS**

Resiliency measures were evaluated based on current conditions of the levees. There are 19 levees identified in the NLD as having FEMA accreditation. Changes in the 0.01 AEP flood elevations based on the updated flow and stage frequencies could affect a small number of these. If the communities wish to keep their levee's accreditation than their levee may need to be raised. Raising levees is likely to require additional underseepage and stability measures as well as possible pipe and structure replacement. The costs for these are not included in this report as further analysis and design is still needed on each affected levee system.

# <span id="page-30-0"></span>**6.0 RESILIENCY CONSTRUCTION**

Resiliency measures were primarily focused on reducing the damages caused by levee breaches as well as reducing the likelihood of a levee breaching. Further analysis and design is still needed at each specific levee. A detailed benefit cost ratio for each measure at each levee was not developed. Resiliency measures were not based on having a federal authority for construction. Many of them would require the levee sponsor or local or state governments to fund design and construction. Options for construction are listed below. There may also be additional funding options not discussed.

# <span id="page-30-1"></span>**6.1 Sponsor Construction and Section 408**

Any of the resiliency measures discussed in this report can be constructed by the nonfederal sponsor. On federally authorized and constructed levees, a 408 permit is required for any modifications made to ensure that there are no negative impacts to the federally authorized project. Sponsor constructed measures could be funded directly by the sponsor or by another entity giving, loaning, or granting the sponsor funding.

## <span id="page-30-2"></span>**6.2 P.L. 84-99 Repairs**

Under the P.L. 84-99 Rehabilitation Program, repair of damaged federal and non-federal levees could consider these resiliency measures either as current standard practice or improvements to reduce the risk of future damages. If a measure is considered to be an improvement or betterment, the sponsor would have to fully fund the additional cost associated with the improvements.

# <span id="page-30-3"></span>**6.3 Current and Future Spinoff Studies**

All of these measures will be analyzed in ongoing and future LOMO spinoff studies.

## <span id="page-30-4"></span>**6.4 Reconstruction Authority**

USACE has some authority for reconstruction on federally constructed projects that were built prior to 1986. Section 103 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 states that the non-federal sponsor is responsible for 100 percent of the operations, maintenance, replacement and rehabilitation costs of a federal flood risk management project after turned over. Prior to the 1986 WRDA, sponsor agreements only stated that the non-federal sponsor was responsible for 100 percent of the operation and maintenance costs. An August 16, 2005 USACE memorandum titled "Reconstruction of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Structural Flood Damage Reduction Projects for which Non-Federal Interests are Responsible for Operation, Maintenance, Repair, Rehabilitation and Replacement" provides policy guidance on reconstruction of items

that present a major performance deficiency caused by a long-term degradation of the foundation, construction materials, and engineering systems that have exceeded their expected service life. Reconstruction is limited to addressing impediments that prevent a project from performing as authorized after all required maintenance has been accomplished and any deficiencies resulting from a lack of maintenance have been addressed.

Federal reconstruction projects require a cost shared feasibility study. The feasibility study can be limited just to the examination of the reconstruction of the existing project with no change in its scope or function or it can be a combination of reconstruction with extension or expansion of flood damage reduction. The feasibility study and the design and construction must be cost shared with the non-federal sponsor in accordance with the provisions of Section 103 of WRDA 86.

Items that could be eligible for reconstruction include: aging metal drainage pipes running through or under levees and floodwalls that are at high risk of collapse during flood events, aging metal seepage collector pipes running within or at the toe of the levee or floodwall that are also at risk of collapse, aging relief wells with wooden screens or deteriorated metal screens that are at higher risk for collapse, pumping plants with aging electrical components that are increasingly hard to maintain and replace, deteriorated riprap that no longer provides the designed level of needed erosion resistance, deteriorated gates and gatewells that are at risk of failure, floodwalls that have settled due to long term degradations of the foundation, and closure structures that are no longer reliable due to degraded materials or foundations.

On the Lower Missouri River, all but a few federal levees are eligible for a federal reconstruction study. MRLS 471-460-R, MRLS 385-L Riverside, MRLS 385-L Quindaro, Monarch Chesterfield and Consolidated North County were either constructed after 1986 or have had major federal modifications completed after 1986 and are not eligible for federal reconstruction assistance. MRLS 455-L, Fairfax-Jersey Creek, CID, North Kanas City, and East Bottoms have had recent federal improvements, however there are portions of the projects that were not modified that could still be eligible for federal reconstruction. Items noted with an asterisk in [Table 1](#page-22-0) are likely eligible for federal reconstruction.

# **Attachment 1 Maps of Selected High and Medium Priority Resiliency Measures**